
# My Simple Chess Project
## Information about the project
This is my simple chess project. I wanted to create a simple chess program, that simulates a game of chess. I started with the rules of chess, and the implementation of the moves. Then I made a simple game, when you and your friend can play against each other. That would come to be the `multi-player-chess` program. Because I don't have any friends that wanted to play with me, I wanted to create a simple chess bot, that I could play against. I have still not created a good bot, because the algorithm is hard to create. The game when you play against a simple bot, was going to be called `single-player-chess`. Just for fun, I created another game, when you just watch two identical computers play against each other. The only thing that you as an user does, is to click the enter key, to execute the next move. That game program is now called `zero-player-game`.
## Creating and running games
To play any of the game in this project, you will have to locate yourself in the `Binary-Program-Folder`, where all the binary/executable files is. Then you have to create the executable files if they don't already exists. To get the executable file for any of the games, you will type `make <game-name>`. The game-name, is one of the game-modes that is mentioned in the beginning. Then an executable file is going to appear. To execute the file / play the game, you will type `./<game-name>`. For example, if you want to play the `single-player-game`, you will first type `make single-player-game`, then `./single-player-game`.
## How to play the different games
### How to move a chess piece
When you are going to move a chess-piece on the board, you can always move the piece by writing the coordinate its on, and then the coordinate that you want to move to. For example, the move could look like `E7 E5`. That means that you want to move the piece on `E7` to `E5`. If you dont know what move to do, you can type the keyword `HINT`. That will print out a move for you to do, which has been calculated by the bot. If you want to let the computer move for you, just like the implemented bot would, you can type the keyword `HELP`.

If you want to save the current game, and maybe play it later, you can type the keyword `SAVE` at any time, when it is your turn. That will save the current board in the `saved-chess-board.txt` file. When you want to start playing on that board again, you can just give the program that file as an argument. And if you don't want to play anymore, you can always type the keyword `STOP`. That will stop the game, and let you know that the game ended with no winner.
### multi-player-chess:
When you start the game `multi-player-chess`, you will start as **WHITE**. When **WHITE** does his move, the turn will go over to **BLACK**, who the does his move. And then I just goes around that way, until the game is over. This game-mode require you to have a friend to play against. Then you and your friend will play against each other.
### single-player-chess:
If you are like me and don't have any friends, you can try to play the game `single-player-chess`. You start as **WHITE** and you do your move. Then the turn goes over to **BLACK**, who is a dump computer that does his move. It is like you play with a friend, but his not your friend, and he isn't good either. When you think of it, this game-mode is kind of depressing. But that's the game, and you switch turns until one of you win, or it becomes a draw.
### zero-player-chess:
This is the dumbest and the least useful game-mode of them all. The game start with player **WHITE**, who is a dumb computer. When you click the **ENTER KEY**, the computer does his move, and the turn goes over to **BLACK**, who also is a equally dumb computer. You click again and the computer does his move. If you sometime enter the word `STOP`, game will stop and no one of the players win.
